=pod

=head1 NAME

Mite::Manual::Benchmarking - comparing Mite with Moose, Moo, and Mouse

=head1 MANUAL

The relative performance of L<Moose>, L<Moo>, L<Mouse>, and Mite will vary
depending on your project.

However, as a general test I created 500 simple test classes, each with a
couple of attributes with defaults and builders, and a method, then a script
which loaded all the classes, instantiated an object of each, and called
the method.

Here are the results, in seconds:

    Toolkit:   Mite
    Load time: 0.2665
    Run time:  00.0082
    
    Toolkit:   Moo
    Load time: 0.1684
    Run time:  0.0945
    
    Toolkit:   Moose
    Load time: 0.7862
    Run time:  0.0089
    
    Toolkit:   Mouse
    Load time: 0.0718
    Run time:  0.0045
    
    Toolkit:   Mouse (MOUSE_PUREPERL=1)
    Load time: 0.1186
    Run time:  0.0348

Mite is one of the slowest at load time, probably because each class requires
loading two files instead of one. Only Moose is slower.

However, once it's running, Mite beats both Moo and the pure Perl version of
Mouse, and runs at about the same speed as Moose. Only the XS version of Mouse
runs significantly faster.

For most applications, running speed is likely to be more important than
loading speed, especially as projects with this many classes are not common!

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs to L<https://github.com/tobyink/p5-mite/issues>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Michael G Schwern E<lt>mschwern@cpan.orgE<gt>.

Toby Inkster E<lt>tobyink@cpan.orgE<gt>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

This software is copyright (c) 2011-2014 by Michael G Schwern.

This software is copyright (c) 2022 by Toby Inkster.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES

THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=cut
