=pod

=head1 NAME

Mite::Manual::MOP - integration with the Moose Meta-Object Protocol.

=head1 MANUAL

To enable Moose integration, you need to provide a "mop" setting in your
F<.mite/config> file:

    ---
    project: Your::Project
    source_from: lib
    compiled_to: lib
    shim: Your::Project::Shim
    mop: Your::Project::MOP
    types: Your::Project::Types
    perltidy: 1

Then when C<mite compile> is run, Mite will write a bunch of metadata about
your classes and roles to F<lib/Your/Project/MOP.pm>.

Now your project has Moose-compatibility!

Loading C<Your::Project::MOP> will instantly "promote" all your classes and
roles to Moose classes and roles.

Third parties can now use Moose to extend your project.

    package Third::Party::Widget;
    
    use Your::Project::MOP;
    use Moose;
    extends 'Your::Project::Widget';
    
    has sku => ( is => 'ro', isa => 'Str' );
    
    __PACKAGE__->meta->make_immutable( replace_constructor => 1 );

Note that the C<replace_constructor> option is required, as Moose is otherwise
reluctant to override a non-Moose constructor.

=head2 Dependencies

If you decide to enable Moose integration for your project, it will
still have zero non-core dependencies for normal usage, but loading the
F<MOP.pm> file will require L<Moose> and L<Type::Tiny>, plus any type
libraries you used (such as L<Types::Standard>, L<Types::Common::String>,
and L<Types::Common::Numeric>).

Just try to make sure that in normal usage F<MOP.pm> never gets loaded.

=head2 C<meta> Methods

If Moose integration is enabled, all your classes and roles will have a
C<meta> method, similar to the one provided by Moose.

Calling C<< $class->meta >>, C<< $role->meta >>, or C<< $object->meta >>
on any of your Mite classes/roles/objects will load F<MOP.pm>.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs to L<https://github.com/tobyink/p5-mite/issues>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Michael G Schwern E<lt>mschwern@cpan.orgE<gt>.

Toby Inkster E<lt>tobyink@cpan.orgE<gt>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

This software is copyright (c) 2011-2014 by Michael G Schwern.

This software is copyright (c) 2022 by Toby Inkster.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES

THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=cut
